---
title: "Interview Experience"
date: 2021-12-15
layout: post
# url:
# medium: 
time: 4
---

_In this post I'll be sharing my interview experience with Google and Goldman Sachs_

## **Google:**

My interview was scheduled for 9 pm. I joined the google meet; the interviewer started the discussion by introducing himself and asked me to introduce myself. Then he<!--break--> jumped on the coding question directly.

[Coding Question:](https://www.careercup.com/question?id=5735650041528320)

A graph has N vertices numbered from 1 to N. We have two lists. One list M consisted of edges between vertices. The other list, K, consists of restricted paths. We have to add edges one by one from M and check whether the addition of the particular edge leads to a path between the restricted vertices given in K. If it creates a path, we have to discard the edge.

One needs to find the total edge in the graph after processing all pairs of list M.

Example: N = 4; K = {(1,4)}; M = {(1, 2), (2, 3), (3, 4)}. Here, addition of edge (3, 4) will create a path between 1 and 4. Hence we discard edge (3, 4)

I started telling my approach with union-find, but we also need to merge intervals as we add edges. I couldn't think of this, and the interviewer gave a few hints.

After discussing the approach, He asked me to code to a doc; it was similar to G-Docs with syntax highlighting.

He asked me about Time complexity and space complexity.

Then he asked me one behavioral question to check googliness.

Q: what is the biggest challenge you have faced during your projects? This interview went for 1 hr.

I didn't get the call for a further round, probably because he was not satisfied with my answer to the coding question.

## Goldman Sachs:

My GS interview was scheduled for 12:00 am (midnight).

I had 3 rounds, 40-45 minutes each, one after another. It went till 2:45 in the morning.

**Round 1:**

The interview started with a discussion on my internship project; he was very interested in my internship project and impressed by my work. We had a discussion of around 15 minutes.

After that, he asked me one probability question that I answered correctly.

Question:

https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/2524783/a-coin-is-tossed-n-times-what-is-the-probability-of-getting-odd-number-of-hea

Then he asked one simple coding question

Q: print out the prime numbers less than N.

**Round 2:**

I got the call for 2nd round immediately after 1st round.

Again this round also started with the internship project discussion, then a probability question that I don't remember exactly; it was based on uniform distribution. I answered this correctly; the interviewer was helpful; he gave hints wherever I got stuck.

Then he asked me a problem that he intended to ask as a PnC problem, but I answered it assuming it was a coding problem.

Problem: number of ways to reach coordinate 4,4 from the origin in a grid.

Constrains: you can only go top and right and one step at a time.

I answered this using the dynamic problem approach, but I realized he wanted a solution using combinatorics {(m+n-2)! / (n-1)! (m-1)}, so I told this approach too.

**Round 3:**

I got the call for the 3rd round immediately; the interviewer was very friendly. He talked about my internship, projects, what I did during the past three years at college, etcetera etcetera. This discussion went for 15-20 minutes, then he asked two probability questions:

Q1:given 3 unbiased dices, what is the probability of getting an increasing sequence after rolling them one by one?

Q2: A and B toss coins 10 and 9 times, respectively; what is the probability that B would get more no of heads.

Then he asked one coding question and asked me to just code that in 10 minutes on code-pair.
[This is the Question that he asked.](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/smallest-subarray-with-all-occurrences-of-a-most-frequent-element/)

After 3 interviews, I left the meeting, and around 3:00 am, I got the call from POC to join the meeting again immediately. I joined, and it was the call from HR confirming the offer.
